
Matt marvelled at Rob's energy. Back in Hector's lab in their home universe Matt was feeling tired. Hours and days seemed somehow irrelevant when jumping from one universe to another. It was like jet lag but on a whole different level. Rob just kept going through their notes of what had happened, tapping away at his tablet computer, asking Matt to remember various details as they tried to make sense of the 20 and pi which they had decided must be clues left for them by Hector.
 
"Eureka" cried Rob jumping up from the desk and starting to dance a jig. "Got it! Look, the missing piece of the puzzle is the signatures of the universes we have travelled to. The Mayan temple universe has a signature of 62643383279502884197, the universe without money has a signature of 16939937510582097494."
 
Matt jumped to Rob's side as he finished his jig and picked up the tablet. "Are those the signatures you typed into the DNA modulator to go back to one of those universes?" he asked.
 
"Yes, remember when Jessica took us to the universe with the flying cars? I had to type a 20 digit number into our modulator, all the universes we have visited have 20 digit signatures. What do you know about the number Pi?" Rob did not wait for an answer but carried on talking at a pace of 80 miles per hour. "Pi is a universal constant, a number from nature representing the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter. It has a number of curious properties, one being that it is irrational, you can never obtain its exact value. Scientists have used supercomputers to calculate pi to over a trillion digits of accuracy, but it goes on forever. Pi starts at 3.14159 and carries on for an infinite number of digits, never repeating and never ending as you get closer and closer to the actual ratio of a circle. The important bit for us is the second and third batch of 20 digits, look!"
 
Rob showed Matt his tablet PC which was now a screen full of numbers starting with 3.14159 and filling the page. Rob had highlighted two batches of digits near the top of the page. Sure enough, the first batch was the Mayan universe, the next was the no money universe's signature. "What does it mean" Matt asked. "I thought we were visiting random universes. I thought we had to find out what made each universe diverge from its parent so that we could find its signature to enable us to return to it. This doesn’t make any sense."
 
This was all too much, and Matt was too tired to think but Rob showed no signs of slowing down. "Clearly things are not as we thought. Think about it. Hector wrote the computer program that controls the DNA modulator. Maybe he coded it to pick a predefined set of universes."
 
Matt was beginning to perk up. "If we didn't go to random universes, then maybe dad didn't either. Could he have gone to the same universes we did?"
 
"Maybe so Matt, but if that's the case why didn't we see him? Why didn't Hector just wait for us?"
 
"I don't know" Matt said, "Dad was two days ahead of us and I suppose he wouldn't know we would be looking for him."
 
"Wait," said Rob, "Hector could have left us the clues so he must have known or guessed we would be following him. Yet the clues are very cryptic, which means he was hiding the clues from someone. Otherwise, he would have just left a big note with our names on it and instructions of where to find him."
 
"So, dad is hiding from someone or something out there, it must be Lothsen and the New East India Trading Company. Hopefully, that means they have not captured him. He is trying to tell us something with these numbers in Pi."
 
Rob stood and paced around the tiny old lab. "Hector has shown us a map, well a route to follow at any rate. By going through the universes mapped out by each set of 20 digits in pi we will follow the same route as Hector through universes giving us a decent chance of finding him. Well, at least a much better chance than just jumping to totally random universes and hoping your dad is there."
 
“OK,” Matt said, “let’s go to the next universe that Dad would have visited, maybe he is there waiting for us.”
 
Rob began to copy the next set of 20 digits of pi 98628034825342117067 from his PC to the modulator program. “Wait a minute, what good is this actually going to do us? We would have gone to this universe next anyway. By selecting the next so called random universe, we have been following the digits of pi.”
 
Matt was more than a little disappointed. “You mean we figured out all these clues and have gained nothing from it? Nothing that will help us find Dad? If he was him leaving the clues, he must have done it for a reason.”
 
Rob looked more worried now. “Maybe it wasn’t Hector leaving the clues, or maybe they weren't meant for us?
